README.md, before:

## Lane Detection Internship [![Compile Documents](https://github.com/hypothermic/lane-detection/actions/workflows/compile-documents.yml/badge.svg?branch=master&event=push)](https://github.com/hypothermic/lane-detection/actions/workflows/compile-documents.yml)

This repository contains the documentation and code for all of the deliverables.

Automatically generated PDFs from the latest commit of the documents can be found on the [Actions Workflow](https://github.com/hypothermic/lane-detection/actions/workflows/compile-documents.yml).

## Documentation

Latexmk is used to simplify the build process.
The Makefile is a wrapper that calls Latexmk and the needed commands.
To compile the documentation to PDF/A: 

```shell
$ make compile-docs
$ find ./build/ -iname "*.pdf"
```

To clean the generated files:

```shell
$ make clean-docs
```

## Test Program

To compile the program and run the automatic unit tests,
you can call the following Make targets:

```shell
$ make clean-lane compile-lane test-lane
```

To manually run a test and view the resulting image in your
default image viewing program, run something like...

```shell
$ make DEBUG=true test-lane-man ARG_TEST=sample ARG_SAMPLE=0a0a0b1a-7c39d84
```

... where ARG\_TEST is the name of a test
and ARG\_SAMPLE is the name of a photo in the data directory.
Please note that the DEBUG variable determines if Valgrind is
used when executing the program.
Images using the manual test target are opened with xdg-open.

And to run multiple tests (e.g. a pipeline of multiple filters)
you can use the helper script:

```shell
$ DEBUG=true SAMPLE=0a0a0b1a-7c39d841 ./test.sh grayscale kmseg gaussian sobel hough_kmeans
```

The sample images were extracted from the Berkeley DeepDrive
dataset. Make sure to extract them using `./data/extract.sh`

## FPGA Hardware

The hardware build is separated into two parts; the VPU IP core
and the total system implementation with AXI infra and Zynq PS.

To build the IP Core standalone:

```shell
$ make compile-hls
$ file build/lane_vpu.prj/lane_vpu/impl/export.zip
```

To build the total system and implement to bitstream:

```shell
$ make compile-hw
$ find -iname "*.bit" -o -iname "*.hwh"
```

If you use the PYNQ framework on the TUL Z2, copy the Jupyter
notebook and the Python modules along with the bitstream and
hardware handoff file to the development board.

Commit message:

Update README.md to include HLS test commands

README.md, after:

## Lane Detection Internship [![Compile Documents](https://github.com/hypothermic/lane-detection/actions/workflows/compile-documents.yml/badge.svg?branch=master&event=push)](https://github.com/hypothermic/lane-detection/actions/workflows/compile-documents.yml)

The goal of this project is to accelerate road lane detection using an FPGA.

![Preview picture](./data/preview.png)

This repository contains the documentation and code for all of the deliverables.

Automatically generated PDFs from the latest commit of the documents can be found on the [Actions Workflow](https://github.com/hypothermic/lane-detection/actions/workflows/compile-documents.yml).

## Documentation

Latexmk is used to simplify the build process.
The Makefile is a wrapper that calls Latexmk and the needed commands.
To compile the documentation to PDF/A: 

```shell
$ make compile-docs
$ find ./build/ -iname "*.pdf"
```

To clean the generated files:

```shell
$ make clean-docs
```

## Test Program

To compile the program and run the automatic unit tests,
you can call the following Make targets:

```shell
$ make clean-lane compile-lane test-lane
```

To manually run a test and view the resulting image in your
default image viewing program, run something like...

```shell
$ make DEBUG=true test-lane-man ARG_TEST=sample ARG_SAMPLE=0a0a0b1a-7c39d84
```

... where ARG\_TEST is the name of a test
and ARG\_SAMPLE is the name of a photo in the data directory.
Please note that the DEBUG variable determines if Valgrind is
used when executing the program.
Images using the manual test target are opened with xdg-open.

And to run multiple tests (e.g. a pipeline of multiple filters)
you can use the helper script:

```shell
$ DEBUG=true SAMPLE=0a0a0b1a-7c39d841 ./test.sh grayscale kmseg gaussian sobel hough_kmeans
```

The sample images were extracted from the Berkeley DeepDrive
dataset. Make sure to extract them using `./data/extract.sh`

## FPGA Hardware

The hardware build is separated into two parts; the VPU IP core
and the total system implementation with AXI infra and Zynq PS.

To run (co-)simulation tests for the IP core:

```shell
$ make test-hls-sim test-hls-cosim
```

To build the IP Core standalone:

```shell
$ make compile-hls
$ file build/lane_vpu.prj/lane_vpu/impl/export.zip
```

To build the total system and implement to bitstream:

```shell
$ make compile-hw
$ find -iname "*.bit" -o -iname "*.hwh"
```

If you use the PYNQ framework on the TUL Z2, copy the Jupyter
notebook and the Python modules along with the bitstream and
hardware handoff file to the development board.
